docs/index.md, before:

# fyaml Documentation

**fyaml** compiles a directory tree of YAML or JSON files into a single deterministic document.

## What is fyaml?

fyaml solves a common, recurring problem:

> Some tools expect configuration to live in a single YAML file, even as that file grows to thousands of lines.

fyaml lets you work with structure and small files, while still producing the single file those tools expect.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install fyaml
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jksmth/fyaml/main/install.sh | bash

# Pack a directory to stdout
fyaml pack config/

# Write to a file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml
```

## Key Features

- **Directory structure → YAML structure**: Maps directory structure directly to YAML structure
- **Split large configs**: Break down thousands of lines into small, focused files
- **Deterministic output**: Identical input always produces identical output
- **No logic or templating**: Pure structure compilation, no execution model
- **JSON support**: Accepts JSON input and can output JSON

## How It Works

- Directory names become map keys
- File names (without extension) become nested keys
- Files starting with `@` merge into the parent directory
- Root-level files merge directly into the output
- Output is deterministic with keys sorted alphabetically

## Example

Given this directory structure:

```
config/
  entities/
    item1.yml
    item2.yml
  items/
    item3.yml
```

**`entities/item1.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example1
  attributes:
    name: sample name
    tags:
      - tag1
      - tag2
```

**`entities/item2.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example2
  attributes:
    name: another name
    tags: []
```

**`items/item3.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example3
  attributes:
    name: third item
    tags:
      - tag3
```

Running `fyaml pack config/` produces:

```yaml
entities:
  item1:
    entity:
      id: example1
      attributes:
        name: sample name
        tags:
          - tag1
          - tag2
  item2:
    entity:
      id: example2
      attributes:
        name: another name
        tags: []
items:
  item3:
    entity:
      id: example3
      attributes:
        name: third item
        tags:
          - tag3
```

## When to Use fyaml

Use fyaml when:

- ✅ You need to produce a single YAML or JSON file
- ✅ The configuration is large enough to benefit from structure
- ✅ Readable diffs and predictable output matter
- ✅ You want organization without adding logic

fyaml is **not** a good fit if you need:

- ❌ Conditionals
- ❌ Loops
- ❌ Variable resolution
- ❌ Runtime behavior

Those concerns are better handled by other tools.

## Documentation

- **[Installation](installation.md)** - How to install fyaml
- **[Usage Guide](usage.md)** - Basic usage, common patterns, and limitations
- **[Examples](examples.md)** - Detailed examples with outputs
- **[Command Reference](reference.md)** - Complete command and flag reference

For quick installation without Go, see [Installation - Quick Install](installation.md#quick-install-linuxmacos) or [Installation - Docker](installation.md#docker).

## Learn More

- View the [FYAML Specification](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/fyaml/blob/master/fyaml-specification.md)
- Check out the [examples directory](https://github.com/jksmth/fyaml/tree/main/examples) in the repository
- See the [README](../README.md) for project overview and quick start
- Report issues or contribute on [GitHub](https://github.com/jksmth/fyaml)

Commit message:

feat: move pack to rootCmd and update docs for default directory (#54)
- Move pack logic from packCmd to rootCmd (pack becomes alias)
- Add --dir flag and --version flag (-V shorthand)
- Update docs to emphasize 'fyaml' (defaults to current directory)
- Simplify tests and update Makefile

docs/index.md, after:

# fyaml Documentation

**fyaml** compiles a directory tree of YAML or JSON files into a single deterministic document.

## What is fyaml?

fyaml solves a common, recurring problem:

> Some tools expect configuration to live in a single YAML file, even as that file grows to thousands of lines.

fyaml lets you work with structure and small files, while still producing the single file those tools expect.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install fyaml
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jksmth/fyaml/main/install.sh | bash

# Pack current directory to stdout
fyaml

# Pack specific directory
fyaml config/

# Write to a file
fyaml -o output.yml
```

## Key Features

- **Directory structure → YAML structure**: Maps directory structure directly to YAML structure
- **Split large configs**: Break down thousands of lines into small, focused files
- **Deterministic output**: Identical input always produces identical output
- **No logic or templating**: Pure structure compilation, no execution model
- **JSON support**: Accepts JSON input and can output JSON

## How It Works

- Directory names become map keys
- File names (without extension) become nested keys
- Files starting with `@` merge into the parent directory
- Root-level files merge directly into the output
- Output is deterministic with keys sorted alphabetically

## Example

Given this directory structure:

```
config/
  entities/
    item1.yml
    item2.yml
  items/
    item3.yml
```

**`entities/item1.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example1
  attributes:
    name: sample name
    tags:
      - tag1
      - tag2
```

**`entities/item2.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example2
  attributes:
    name: another name
    tags: []
```

**`items/item3.yml`:**

```yaml
entity:
  id: example3
  attributes:
    name: third item
    tags:
      - tag3
```

Running `fyaml` (from within config/) or `fyaml config/` (from outside) produces:

```yaml
entities:
  item1:
    entity:
      id: example1
      attributes:
        name: sample name
        tags:
          - tag1
          - tag2
  item2:
    entity:
      id: example2
      attributes:
        name: another name
        tags: []
items:
  item3:
    entity:
      id: example3
      attributes:
        name: third item
        tags:
          - tag3
```

## When to Use fyaml

Use fyaml when:

- ✅ You need to produce a single YAML or JSON file
- ✅ The configuration is large enough to benefit from structure
- ✅ Readable diffs and predictable output matter
- ✅ You want organization without adding logic

fyaml is **not** a good fit if you need:

- ❌ Conditionals
- ❌ Loops
- ❌ Variable resolution
- ❌ Runtime behavior

Those concerns are better handled by other tools.

## Documentation

- **[Installation](installation.md)** - How to install fyaml
- **[Usage Guide](usage.md)** - Basic usage, common patterns, and limitations
- **[Examples](examples.md)** - Detailed examples with outputs
- **[Command Reference](reference.md)** - Complete command and flag reference

For quick installation without Go, see [Installation - Quick Install](installation.md#quick-install-linuxmacos) or [Installation - Docker](installation.md#docker).

## Learn More

- View the [FYAML Specification](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/fyaml/blob/master/fyaml-specification.md)
- Check out the [examples directory](https://github.com/jksmth/fyaml/tree/main/examples) in the repository
- See the [README](../README.md) for project overview and quick start
- Report issues or contribute on [GitHub](https://github.com/jksmth/fyaml)
