docs/reference.md, before:

# Command Reference

Complete reference for all fyaml commands, flags, and options.

## Commands

### `fyaml pack [DIR]`

Compile a directory of YAML/JSON files into a single document.

**Synopsis:**
```bash
fyaml pack [DIR] [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `DIR` - Directory to pack (default: current directory)

**Flags:**
- `-o, --output string` - Write output to file (default: stdout)
- `--check` - Compare generated output to `--output`, exit non-zero if different
- `-f, --format string` - Output format: `yaml` or `json` (default: `yaml`)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Pack current directory to stdout
fyaml pack

# Pack specific directory
fyaml pack config/

# Write to file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml

# Output as JSON
fyaml pack config/ --format json -o output.json

# Verify output matches file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml --check
```

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Success
- `1` - Pack or IO error
- `2` - `--check` mismatch (output differs from file)

### `fyaml version`

Print version information.

**Synopsis:**
```bash
fyaml version
```

**Output:**
```
1.0.3 (commit: c56e30ab7375f56ea0a57944b1354b970e66d7b2, date: 2025-12-29T23:31:56Z)
```

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Success

## Flags Reference

### `--output`, `-o`

Specify the output file path. If not provided, output is written to stdout.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml
fyaml pack config/ --output /path/to/output.yml
```

**Behavior:**
- File is written atomically (creates temp file, then renames)
- File permissions are set to `0644`
- If the file exists, it's overwritten
- Parent directories are not created automatically (must exist)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Write to current directory
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml

# Write to specific path
fyaml pack config/ -o /tmp/output.yml

# Write to subdirectory (must exist)
fyaml pack config/ -o build/config.yml
```

### `--check`

Compare the generated output with an existing file specified by `--output`. Exits with code 2 if they differ.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml --check
```

**Behavior:**
- Requires `--output` to be specified
- Reads the existing file (if it exists)
- Compares byte-by-byte with generated output
- Exits with code 2 if different, 0 if same
- Useful in CI/CD to verify configuration hasn't changed

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Output matches the file
- `2` - Output differs from the file
- `1` - Error (file read error, etc.)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Verify in CI
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check

# This will fail if config.yml is out of date
if ! fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check; then
    echo "Configuration is out of date!"
    exit 1
fi
```

### `--format`, `-f`

Specify the output format. Valid values: `yaml` or `json`.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ --format json
fyaml pack config/ -f yaml
```

**Default:** `yaml`

**Behavior:**
- `yaml` - Outputs YAML format (default)
- `json` - Outputs JSON format with 2-space indentation
- Empty output behavior differs by format (see below)

**Examples:**
```bash
# YAML output (default)
fyaml pack config/

# JSON output
fyaml pack config/ --format json

# JSON to file
fyaml pack config/ -f json -o config.json
```

**Empty Output:**
- YAML format: Returns empty output (0 bytes) when no files found
- JSON format: Returns `null` when no files found

### `--enable-includes`

Enable processing of `<<include(file)>>` directives. This is an extension to the FYAML specification.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes
```

**Default:** `false` (disabled)

**Behavior:**
- When enabled, `<<include(path)>>` directives in YAML values are replaced with file contents
- File paths are resolved relative to the YAML file containing the directive (absolute paths are also supported)
- The include directive must be the **entire value** (not embedded in other text)
- Only one include per value is allowed
- Included file content is returned exactly as-is (no modification or escaping)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Process includes
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes

# Combine with other flags
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes -o output.yml
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes --format json
```

**Example YAML with include:**
```yaml
steps:
  - run:
      command: <<include(scripts/deploy.sh)>>
```

When packed with `--enable-includes`, the `<<include(...)>>` is replaced with the contents of `scripts/deploy.sh` (relative to the YAML file).

**Error Cases:**
- `echo <<include(f)>>` — "entire string must be include statement"
- `<<include(a)>> <<include(b)>>` — "multiple include statements"
- Missing file — "could not open path/to/file for inclusion"

**Note:** Without this flag, include directives are passed through unchanged. This preserves backward compatibility and keeps the default behavior spec-compliant.

## Exit Codes

fyaml uses the following exit codes:

| Code | Meaning | When It Occurs |
|------|---------|----------------|
| `0` | Success | Packing succeeded, or `--check` found no differences |
| `1` | Error | Pack error, IO error, invalid format, etc. |
| `2` | Mismatch | `--check` found differences between output and file |

**Examples:**
```bash
# Success
fyaml pack config/  # exits 0

# Error - invalid directory
fyaml pack /nonexistent  # exits 1

# Mismatch - config out of date
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check  # exits 2 if different
```

## Default Behavior

### Default Directory

If no directory is specified, fyaml packs the current working directory:

```bash
# These are equivalent
fyaml pack
fyaml pack .
```

### Default Output

If no output file is specified, output goes to stdout:

```bash
# Output to stdout
fyaml pack config/

# Output to file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml
```

### Default Format

Default output format is YAML:

```bash
# YAML output (default)
fyaml pack config/

# JSON output
fyaml pack config/ --format json
```

## Error Messages

### Common Errors

**"pack error: failed to build filetree: ..."**
- Directory doesn't exist
- Permission denied
- Invalid path

**"pack error: failed to marshal tree: ..."**
- Invalid YAML/JSON in files
- File contains non-map top-level value

**"expected a map, got a <type> which is not supported at this time for \"<filepath>\"**
- File has top-level scalar or array instead of map
- See [Usage Guide](usage.md) for details

**"invalid format: <format> (must be 'yaml' or 'json')"**
- Invalid `--format` value
- Use `yaml` or `json` only

**"--check requires --output to be specified"**
- `--check` flag used without `--output`
- Must specify output file when using `--check`

**"failed to read output file: ..."**
- Error reading file for `--check` comparison
- File may be unreadable (permission issue)

**"warning: no YAML/JSON files found in directory: <path>"**
- Directory contains no `.yml`, `.yaml`, or `.json` files
- Not an error, but output will be empty/null

## Performance Considerations

- Files are processed in memory
- Suitable for typical configuration files (KB to low MB)
- Very large files (hundreds of MB) may consume significant memory
- Processing is single-threaded

## See Also

- [Usage Guide](usage.md) - Common usage patterns and limitations
- [Examples](examples.md) - Detailed examples

Commit message:

feat: Include path confinement (#31)
* feat(include): add path confinement and remove global state

Implement strict path confinement using os.Root to ensure all included
files must reside within the pack root directory. This prevents directory
traversal attacks and ensures includes cannot escape the intended project
boundary.

Also remove the global ProcessIncludes variable and replace it with an
explicit IncludeOptions struct that is passed through the call chain,
improving thread safety and testability.

- Add os.Root-based confinement in MaybeIncludeFile()
- Support both absolute and relative paths within pack root
- Remove filetree.ProcessIncludes global variable
- Add filetree.IncludeOptions struct
- Update all function signatures and tests
- Clarify confinement behavior in documentation

* docs: remove duplicate line

* fix(include): check root.Close() error to satisfy linter

* test: add error path tests for include pack root validation

docs/reference.md, after:

# Command Reference

Complete reference for all fyaml commands, flags, and options.

## Commands

### `fyaml pack [DIR]`

Compile a directory of YAML/JSON files into a single document.

**Synopsis:**
```bash
fyaml pack [DIR] [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `DIR` - Directory to pack (default: current directory)

**Flags:**
- `-o, --output string` - Write output to file (default: stdout)
- `--check` - Compare generated output to `--output`, exit non-zero if different
- `-f, --format string` - Output format: `yaml` or `json` (default: `yaml`)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Pack current directory to stdout
fyaml pack

# Pack specific directory
fyaml pack config/

# Write to file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml

# Output as JSON
fyaml pack config/ --format json -o output.json

# Verify output matches file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml --check
```

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Success
- `1` - Pack or IO error
- `2` - `--check` mismatch (output differs from file)

### `fyaml version`

Print version information.

**Synopsis:**
```bash
fyaml version
```

**Output:**
```
1.0.3 (commit: c56e30ab7375f56ea0a57944b1354b970e66d7b2, date: 2025-12-29T23:31:56Z)
```

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Success

## Flags Reference

### `--output`, `-o`

Specify the output file path. If not provided, output is written to stdout.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml
fyaml pack config/ --output /path/to/output.yml
```

**Behavior:**
- File is written atomically (creates temp file, then renames)
- File permissions are set to `0644`
- If the file exists, it's overwritten
- Parent directories are not created automatically (must exist)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Write to current directory
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml

# Write to specific path
fyaml pack config/ -o /tmp/output.yml

# Write to subdirectory (must exist)
fyaml pack config/ -o build/config.yml
```

### `--check`

Compare the generated output with an existing file specified by `--output`. Exits with code 2 if they differ.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml --check
```

**Behavior:**
- Requires `--output` to be specified
- Reads the existing file (if it exists)
- Compares byte-by-byte with generated output
- Exits with code 2 if different, 0 if same
- Useful in CI/CD to verify configuration hasn't changed

**Exit Codes:**
- `0` - Output matches the file
- `2` - Output differs from the file
- `1` - Error (file read error, etc.)

**Examples:**
```bash
# Verify in CI
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check

# This will fail if config.yml is out of date
if ! fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check; then
    echo "Configuration is out of date!"
    exit 1
fi
```

### `--format`, `-f`

Specify the output format. Valid values: `yaml` or `json`.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ --format json
fyaml pack config/ -f yaml
```

**Default:** `yaml`

**Behavior:**
- `yaml` - Outputs YAML format (default)
- `json` - Outputs JSON format with 2-space indentation
- Empty output behavior differs by format (see below)

**Examples:**
```bash
# YAML output (default)
fyaml pack config/

# JSON output
fyaml pack config/ --format json

# JSON to file
fyaml pack config/ -f json -o config.json
```

**Empty Output:**
- YAML format: Returns empty output (0 bytes) when no files found
- JSON format: Returns `null` when no files found

### `--enable-includes`

Enable processing of `<<include(file)>>` directives. This is an extension to the FYAML specification.

**Usage:**
```bash
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes
```

**Default:** `false` (disabled)

**Behavior:**
- When enabled, `<<include(path)>>` directives in YAML values are replaced with file contents
- **The directory passed to `pack` (the pack root) defines the include boundary; includes outside this directory are rejected.**
- File paths are resolved relative to the YAML file containing the directive
- Both absolute and relative paths are allowed, but must resolve to a path within the pack root directory
- The include directive must be the **entire value** (not embedded in other text)
- Only one include per value is allowed

**Examples:**
```bash
# Process includes
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes

# Combine with other flags
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes -o output.yml
fyaml pack config/ --enable-includes --format json
```

**Example YAML with include:**
```yaml
steps:
  - run:
      command: <<include(scripts/deploy.sh)>>
```

When packed with `--enable-includes`, the `<<include(...)>>` is replaced with the contents of `scripts/deploy.sh` (relative to the YAML file).

**Error Cases:**
- `echo <<include(f)>>` — "entire string must be include statement"
- `<<include(a)>> <<include(b)>>` — "multiple include statements"
- Missing file — "could not open path/to/file for inclusion"
- Path escapes pack root — "include path escapes pack root"

**Note:** Without this flag, include directives are passed through unchanged. This preserves backward compatibility and keeps the default behavior spec-compliant.

## Exit Codes

fyaml uses the following exit codes:

| Code | Meaning | When It Occurs |
|------|---------|----------------|
| `0` | Success | Packing succeeded, or `--check` found no differences |
| `1` | Error | Pack error, IO error, invalid format, etc. |
| `2` | Mismatch | `--check` found differences between output and file |

**Examples:**
```bash
# Success
fyaml pack config/  # exits 0

# Error - invalid directory
fyaml pack /nonexistent  # exits 1

# Mismatch - config out of date
fyaml pack config/ -o config.yml --check  # exits 2 if different
```

## Default Behavior

### Default Directory

If no directory is specified, fyaml packs the current working directory:

```bash
# These are equivalent
fyaml pack
fyaml pack .
```

### Default Output

If no output file is specified, output goes to stdout:

```bash
# Output to stdout
fyaml pack config/

# Output to file
fyaml pack config/ -o output.yml
```

### Default Format

Default output format is YAML:

```bash
# YAML output (default)
fyaml pack config/

# JSON output
fyaml pack config/ --format json
```

## Error Messages

### Common Errors

**"pack error: failed to build filetree: ..."**
- Directory doesn't exist
- Permission denied
- Invalid path

**"pack error: failed to marshal tree: ..."**
- Invalid YAML/JSON in files
- File contains non-map top-level value

**"expected a map, got a <type> which is not supported at this time for \"<filepath>\"**
- File has top-level scalar or array instead of map
- See [Usage Guide](usage.md) for details

**"invalid format: <format> (must be 'yaml' or 'json')"**
- Invalid `--format` value
- Use `yaml` or `json` only

**"--check requires --output to be specified"**
- `--check` flag used without `--output`
- Must specify output file when using `--check`

**"failed to read output file: ..."**
- Error reading file for `--check` comparison
- File may be unreadable (permission issue)

**"warning: no YAML/JSON files found in directory: <path>"**
- Directory contains no `.yml`, `.yaml`, or `.json` files
- Not an error, but output will be empty/null

## Performance Considerations

- Files are processed in memory
- Suitable for typical configuration files (KB to low MB)
- Very large files (hundreds of MB) may consume significant memory
- Processing is single-threaded

## See Also

- [Usage Guide](usage.md) - Common usage patterns and limitations
- [Examples](examples.md) - Detailed examples
